# Book of Life
## Outline / raw ideas

- Forward
- Health
  - Habits
  - Social Skills
  - Developing a growth mindset vs. a fixed mindset
    - To grow is to feel pain, but it's worth it
  - The problem with screens
    - Real joy is found in analog experiences
    - We are all here for connection
  - Comfort Zone / Pushing through fear
  - The power of Actions
  - The problem with self-help
  - Make Mistakes, but  Avoid Permanent Mistakes
    - alcohol, unwanted pregnancy
  - How to make a comeback
    - Hierarchy of needs: working your way up
  - Beware of Social Media
    - Get rich, or do xyz because it's easy
    - Life highlights
- Wealth 
  - Get rich slow
  - FIRE movement
  - Credit Cards are enemies
- Happiness
  - Integrity
  - Connection / Relationships are key
  - Discipline is Destiny
  - Push through resistance
- Career
  - Relationships are key
  - Getting/Staying hired
    - YT Video of Graphic Designers advice
  - Advice to a young man article
  - How to apply for a job
    - How to actually get the job you want
  - The power of networking
    - The importance of Social Skills, listening
  - Be a yes man. Always be Providing Value / Make yourself invaluable
  - Be a part of a Scene
  - The kind of work you do, is the kind of work you get
- Women
- Things my parents taught me
- Things my parents didn't teach me
- Notes on the Tech Industry
  - You must be a self-starter
  - Beware of Tech Companies that prey on young people
  - Know your worth
  - How to learn what to learn
  - How to learn things quickly 
    - (20 hrs)
    - Your Peers Matter
- Book Recommendations


## Misc Chapters / Sections / Ideas
- The Power of 1% (Compounding)
  - Finances
  - Knowledge
    - Examples of people
- The Power of Youth (Youth is wasted on the Young)
  - Adopt a growth mindset
  - Use time to your advantage
- NFE (No Fucking Excuses)
  - Show up and do the work
- Always Ask
  - The answer is always no if you don't ask  
- Communication is key
- Non-verbal Communication
  - Body Language
    - [Body Language Expert Explains Why People Dislike You](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ldizQkuWpDE)
  - Eye Contact
- The New Cost of Living
- Know your place
  - Understand where you were born
  - Some kids are born with a headstart
- Politics
  - Educate yourself
    - Cast a wide net
    - Don't just read the headlines   
  - Form Opinions
  - Can you take action?
  - Beware of people at the extremes
- WHo Are You?
  - Define your principles
  - What defines you?
  - What do you really care about?
- You don't have to follow the rules
  - Hack your life
  - Life is finite
- Design Thinking
  - Learning to Listen, 5 whys
  - Validate Ideas
- The most important decisions in your life
  - Who you choose as your partner
  - Who you choose as your friends
    - Beware the dream killers. Are they excited for your happiness?
    - Beware the frenemy
  - Where you live
- The Power of Starting early
  - Stacking Knowledge
  - Stacking Money
  - Stacking Kills
    - Jimmy Hendrix
- Loss Aversion
- Keys to success
  - Work Hard, Get Lucky
  - Inspiration has to find you working
  - Mastery: Good Habits + Consistency
  - "The greatest threat to success is not failure but boredom. Anyone can work hard when the feel motivated. It's the ability to keep going when work isn't exciting that makes the difference. Professionals stick to the schedule. Amateurs let life get in the way" -James Clear
  - Darkness as a blocker. It's a leap of faith to know there is light when you are surrounded by darkness. Depression is real. Anyone who tells you otherwise may never have experienced it.  But id there is a tiny spark in you, you need to hold it and protect it.  When you are in the dark woods, you can not see the clearing, you can't see the edge of the forrest. But in our darkest moments, we must soldier on. And sometimes soldiering on just means taking a break. Push everything else aside and find the reset button. Exercise: take a walk, journal, watch TV, media blackout, vacation if you can afford it. sobriety. connect with people.
  Success is largely the failures you avoid. - From unknown meme source
   - Health is the injuries vou don't sustain.
   - Wealth is the purchases vou don't make.
   - Happiness is the objects vou don't desire.
   - Peace of mind is the arguments you don't engage.
   - Avoid the bad to protect the good.
- Components of a good day. Do something:
  - Intellectual / Personal Dev
  - Physical
  - Social
  - Work
- Opportunities:
  - Be available
  - Be a yes man. Provide Value
- Life can be hard
  - Take advantage of your youth
    - traveling, autonomy, make mistakes
  - Things get better
  - But don't expect life to be easy
  - Prepare for the worst. Have a backup plan
- Building a strong Foundation
  - Three Little Pigs || House metaphor
  - Self love / appreciation
- The Power of Gratitude
- Brene Brown on Love and Belonging
- Uncomfortable conversations
  - Everything good is on the other side
- Dealing with Heartbreak
- Sensitive vs. Insensitive people
  - Sensitive people feel things more
- What doesn't kill you, make's you stronger. no really
  - You can't see the light when you're in the dark forest
- Build Wealth
  - Real Estate: Renting & Investing vs. Buying
  - Stay out of debt
- How to make decisions
  - Fish Example
  - Tim Ferris - Fear Mapping / Contingency planning
  - Pros/Cons, Best/Worst Case scenarios
- If you're trying new things, then you're doing it right
- Always be curious
- Ask Yourself:
  - How far can I take this?
  - What would it look like if I did xyz?
- Get Organized
  - Use a system
  - Bullet Journal
- Show up ready to work
  - Have you pens and notebooks
  - dress for success (first impressions)
  - If you're not 10 mins early, you're late
  - The time to gather knowledge is not in the meeting. Show up knowing as much about XYZ as you can
  - If you can Google it, don't ask the question
- Learn to be a presenter
  - Do it until you're comfortable (push your comfort circle)
- Anyway poem
- Protect Yourself (Don;t be scared, be prepared)
  - Understand Online Security
  - Be skeptical of everything. People are trying to steal your money. Arm yourself with knowledge. Don;t let the worse case scenario happen. 
    - Diversify
    - How attacks work
    - Phishing and the long-con game (crypto example)
    - Password System
    - Define weakness (points of attack), everything should be locked
      - Phones
      - laptops, screen protector, etc
    - Stay abreast of tech evolution
    - If it sounds too god to be true...
    - Beware of DMs
    - do not plug in a random usb drive
    - Your phone number should be private 
      - spam is no ok, it is a disruption at the very least
    - Your data will be scraped and used against you (voice, text, images, phone, alexa, etc, )
      - Marketing
      - AI
      - Beacons
      - Getting hired for a job
      - Applying for a loan
      - etc.
    - Data Breach
      - Big Box Stores
    - Avoid Public Wifi
      - Get a VPN
      - Man in the Middle
    - If it involves money, you're guard should be up
- The Power of work in small chunks
  - Software
  - Houses
  - etc
- Aggressively edit your life
  - What physical stuff do you own?
  - Who do you spend your time with?
  - How many loose ends do you have?
- Travel 
  - is the antidote to hatred
  - Travel while you are young
  - Parent
  - Travel after university, then get your head down and work: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XyhhwVJB9Z4&t=817s
- Don;t forget to recharge your batteries
  - Take a vacation
  - break your routine
  - see your friends
  - go see some music
- The Power of Empathy
  - See people
  - Beware, some people see empathy as a weakness
  - Problem Finding, before problem solving
- Many problems can be solved by design
  - Habit systems
  - Home / Environment
- Always say thank you
  - When someone helps you
  - Give an update to a mentor
  - acknowledge the people in your life who are trying to lift you up
- Never leave money on the table
  - When you lose, lose less
  - When you win, win more
- Win your morning, and you win the day
  - Wake up early
  - Win your Monday and you win the week
- Notes on getting older
  - The world will seem to speed up
  - Three phases on perspectives
    - Youth: new things e.g. (tech and societal norms) seem normal
    - Middle age: new things seem abnormal but accepted
    - Old Age: new things seem wrong and an abomination of your values
  - There will always be great art, just not in the mainstream
  - People will always be wonderful and awful
    - Look for the helpers
- Notes on the Subconscious Mind
  - The conscious mind does what the subconscious wants
  - Learn how to use you subconscious mind to solve problems
    - While you sleep
    - While you do other things
- Read Books: 
  - Take notes on everything
  - Make action items
  - Make a Common Place book
- Know Personality Types and how they interact
  - Could you be an ambivert?
  - What do you need to recharge?
- thoughts on suicide
  - passing moments
  - avoid permanent mistakes
- Beware of what you keep
  - It weighs you down
  - What do you keep? What matters? e.g. Family / Sentimental items
    - Lessons from Mee Maws letters
- You can do Anything you want
  - But you have to work your ass off
  - Lean in to thr power of incremental gains
  - Surround yourself with the best in whatever field
  - except that some paths may not reward you financially 
    - BEware of trap careers. e.g. Pop Star
    - Beware of real limitations. e.g. professional athlete
- The Problem with Pickup artists
  - Educate yourself of why this is horrible
  - You can transform yourself. e.g. neil strauss
- The Advantages and Challenges of Keeping a Clutter Free Life
  - Physical Clutter
  - Digital Clutter
  - Social Clutter
- Young vs Old souls
- Always Read the Fine Print (The devil is in the details)
- [Being boring is hard](2024-08-26 - Being bored.md).
- The importance of grammar and spelling (emails, text, written, Slack, etc.)
- Get comfortable failing, but first, put yourself in the fire. Do it over and over again even if it sucks. (David Goggins)
- Age gracefully, Skin Care Routine
  - Take tips from gay men
- Life's moments can be hard, do it anyway
- Turning Pro and playing in the big leagues
  - Pro equipment
- What doesn't kill you, only makes you stronger, but also it might kill you
  - Pain = growth
  - Stress will kill you. Avoid toxic situations and the wrong kinds of responsibility
- Annual Reviews
  Each year, I write my Annual Review and share it publicly. My Annual Review answers three questions.
    - What went well this year?
    - What didn’t go so well this year?
    - What am I working toward?
- Beware of "Cognitive Depletion": (sometimes referred to as "ego depletion") is a psychological phenomenon describing a temporary reduction in one’s capacity or willingness to exert mental effort after having already engaged in a cognitively or emotionally demanding task. In other words, performing activities that require self-control, decision-making, or focus can fatigue the mind, making it harder to maintain the same level of cognitive performance on subsequent tasks. 
- AI
  - AI is here, use it. but be wary. Seeing solutions is not learning: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/how-a-i-is-getting-in-the-way-of-real-learning/id121493643?i=1000710467878
  - See 2025-08-05 ai.md
- Bitcoin
  - Educate yourself, know abut eh 4 year cycle (and how it can go away), 
  - Buy the dips, DCA
- When you don;t know what to do:
  - try something, anything for 20 hrs
  - for 30 days
  - Concentrate on foundational skills
    - Soft skills
    - Learning how to learn
    - Communication  
- You always have a choice, get outside of your bubble. we live in a world of abundance
  - https://www.youtube.com/shorts/DZOaWyrODKA
- Why does it cost so much to live?
  - Understand Inflation and the devaluation of the US Dollar
  - Hedge against inflation
  - Buy Assets
- Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the face
  - Hurricane IDA example
  - know your limits
  - plan for chaos
- Beware of cognitive bias
  - People sometimes tell themselves the story they want to hear
    - What story are you telling yourself right now?
    - What are your riskiest assumptions
  - The conscious mind does what the subconscious wants
    - Lear how to pay attention to your actions, not your so much your thoughts
---------


## Practice
- when you're a kid you have tons of time to practice
- and ton's of motivation
- and not a lot of distractions
- ^ This is way different than the life of a 35-50 year old

## On Becoming a Man
- Live in Integrity
- Be conscious of what you want in life
- Be wary of pleasing others, especially your partner
- Get your needs met
- Learn how to sooth with your own anxiety. This will allow you to lean-in to discomfort and expand your circle (Comfort Zone). Outside of the circle is where the best things in life live.
- You can't pour from an empty cup
- First you must define your convictions
  - then live by them
  - prepare for your convictions to be tested

## Resources
### [The Single Biggest Point of Failure In A Man's Life | Scott Galloway X Rich Roll Podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4qpqmyfxDj4)

- Beware of dating apps
  - creates a sense of no value as a male
- You are not in the top 10%


## Seasons of life
- https://youtu.be/XyhhwVJB9Z4?si=zaZrBElgTMa5WXdh&t=7441
  - Be outside of your comfort zone to get the magic
  - "Build" season life vs "enjoyment" season of life
  - Start with hpw you want to feel
